= ConsiderIt

ConsiderIt is an open source deliberation platform that allows people to
collaboratively create pro/con lists of the key points around any complex issue. 

ConsiderIt works by drawing on the wisdom of crowds to generate a set of key
considerations for decision-making: helping organizations identify the pro and con 
points that matter most to their users, readers or constituents. 

ConsiderIt helps individuals make sense of complex issues by letting them create 
pro/con lists of the key points that matter to them. ConsiderIt makes it easy to 
endorse points made by others who share your views, or to add new points of your 
own. 

ConsiderIt also helps create common ground among people with different views. 
ConsiderIt prioritizes the pro and con points that are endorsed by people from 
across the decision spectrum, decreasing polarization and helping decision-makers 
move towards solutions with broad appeal.

ConsiderIt is open source, a Ruby on Rails project. It is licensed under the AGPL.


== Installation

Below are quick installation instructions.  Also see Installation Hints
(next section) if you have problems.

1. Manage ruby / rails installs with RVM (https://rvm.beginrescueend.com/gemsets/).
   After installing rvm, install ruby 1.92 (rvm install 1.9.2)
   Good mac install directions at
   http://www.cowboycoded.com/2010/12/04/setting-up-rails-3-on-mac-osx-snow-leopard-10-6-4/

2. Install a SQL database if needed.  We've been using MySQL (http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/)

3. Clone from git repository into your workspace. note that you will
   have to set up your ssh keys with github first 
   (see e.g. http://help.github.com/linux-set-up-git/)
     git clone git@github.com:tkriplean/ConsiderIt.git

4. Install ImageMagick: http://www.imagemagick.org/script/index.php

5. Go into the ConsiderIt directory:
    cd ConsiderIt
   Note that an RVM project file (.rvmrc)
   already exists in the project. When you first cd into the directory,
   RVM should recognize this and ask if you trust it. You should say yes.

6. Install gems.  This item is in two parts: dealing with the
   problematic <tt>mysql</tt> gem; and installing everything else.
   * The mysql gem is problematic on the Macintosh.  Here are quick
     directions -- see the Installation Hints below for alternatives if
     this doesn't work.

     (for mac) when installing mysql gem:
       sudo env ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" gem install mysql -with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config
     Or with MAMP:
       sudo env ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" gem install mysql -with-mysql-config=/Applications/MAMP/Library/bin/mysql_config
     accessing MAMP mysql via terminal: 
       mysql --socket=/Applications/MAMP/tmp/mysql/mysql.sock -u root -p

   * Install the other gems.  The Gemfile in the ConsiderIt directory specifies 
     a particular version of rails -- the following command will install that version.
       gem install rails -v '3.0.6'
       bundle install

7. Update config/database.yml as necessary.  You may need to change
   the user name or password, and perhaps use a different adaptor.  See
   Installation Hints.

8. Create the database
     rake db:create
     rake db:migrate

9. Start the web server:
     rails server
   (run with --help for options)

10. (optional) Deployment
    * when creating app on heroku, specify 1.9.2 stack: http://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/stack
    * you can have multiple remote sites for git, such as github and heroku: http://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/git


== Installation Hints

These hints are currently only for the Macintosh.

1. Ruby.  This step suggests managing ruby installs with RVM (Ruby Version
   Manager).  This will install a recent version of Ruby, but also leave
   the built-in version of Ruby intact at /usr/bin/ruby

   The suggested script for installing rvm is:
     bash < <(curl -s https://rvm.beginrescueend.com/install/rvm)

   If this doesn't work try downloading the script from
   https://rvm.beginrescueend.com/install/rvm and running it directly as
   a shell script.

   After you're done, check that you have the correct version of ruby
   (should be 1.9.2):
     ruby -v

   Set this as the default in RVM so you don't have to switch each time
   you open a new shell:
     rvm --default use 1.9.2

2. Straightforward!

3. Cloning the git repository - this is appropriate if you just
   want a copy of the code.  If you plan to contribute, fork the
   repository instead so you have your own copy on github -- see
   http://help.github.com/fork-a-repo/

4. ImageMagick - for the Macintosh the recommended
   technique is to use MacPorts (http://www.macports.org/).  This
   involves building from source and takes a while -- no dmg file, 
   unfortunately.  However, this has worked fine on various Macs, 
   so you probably won't have any trouble.

5. Straightforward!

6. Install gems.  As noted, the mysql gem is problematic on the
   Macintosh.  The mysql2 gem is touted as superior to the mysql gem, so
   you can try that if the instructions above don't work.  However, the
   most recent version didn't install correctly.  Installing an older
   version (0.2.7) worked on a Macbook air running Snow Leopard (version
   10.6.8).  You'll first need to fix a path problem for Ruby mysql2 gem
   to find the correct library by putting this in your .profile file:
     export DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/mysql/lib:$DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH"

   Then this should install the gem itself:
     sudo env ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" gem install mysql2 -v 0.2.7 -- --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config

   If you use mysql2 rather than mysql, edit the Gemfile by replacing this line:
     gem 'mysql'
   with
     gem 'mysql2', '0.2.7'

   Also replace mysql (the adaptor) in config/database.yml with mysql2.

   Neither of these techniques worked on a desktop Mac Pro running
   Leopard (version 10.5.8).  There were various problems, including not
   being able to find the library.  To get this working I ended up
   removing the version of mysql installed from the dmg file and
   installed it using Macports.  (There must be a better way but this
   worked.)  Here are directions for completely removing MySQL if you end
   up needing to do this:
   http://akrabat.com/computing/uninstalling-mysql-on-mac-os-x-leopard/

   Then install MySQL using Macports:
     sudo port install mysql5
     sudo port install mysql5-server

   After this, a simple
     sudo gem install mysql
   worked.

7. Update config/database.yml as necessary.
   If you used the mysql2 gem, you'll need to change the adaptor
   accordingly.  Also edit the user name or password to taste.

Finally, if you are still having trouble with rails or with the mysql
interface, try making a trivial test application with rails, as
described in 
http://www.cowboycoded.com/2010/12/04/setting-up-rails-3-on-mac-osx-snow-leopard-10-6-4/

  rails new test_app
  cd test_app
  bundle install
  rails s

Then point a browser to http://localhost:3000 and see if it works.  Be sure
and click the "About your application’s environment" link as part of
the test since that queries the database.

This first version of the test application uses the built-in database
sqlite3.  If this works, next try using mysql -- change the
Gemfile to use mysql (or mysql2) rather than sqlite, and also edit
config/database.yml to use mysql as well.  Run "bundle install" again
and start up rails -- if things still work then you know that rails
and the mysql gem are OK and the problem is elsewhere.


== Description of Contents

The default directory structure of a generated Ruby on Rails application:

  |-- app
  |   |-- controllers
  |   |-- helpers
  |   |-- mailers
  |   |-- models
  |   `-- views
  |       `-- layouts
  |-- config
  |   |-- environments
  |   |-- initializers
  |   `-- locales
  |-- db
  |-- doc
  |-- lib
  |   `-- tasks
  |-- log
  |-- public
  |   |-- images
  |   |-- javascripts
  |   `-- stylesheets
  |-- script
  |-- test
  |   |-- fixtures
  |   |-- functional
  |   |-- integration
  |   |-- performance
  |   `-- unit
  |-- tmp
  |   |-- cache
  |   |-- pids
  |   |-- sessions
  |   `-- sockets
  `-- vendor
      `-- plugins

app
  Holds all the code that's specific to this particular application.

app/controllers
  Holds controllers that should be named like weblogs_controller.rb for
  automated URL mapping. All controllers should descend from
  ApplicationController which itself descends from ActionController::Base.

app/models
  Holds models that should be named like post.rb. Models descend from
  ActiveRecord::Base by default.

app/views
  Holds the template files for the view that should be named like
  weblogs/index.html.erb for the WeblogsController#index action. All views use
  eRuby syntax by default.

app/views/layouts
  Holds the template files for layouts to be used with views. This models the
  common header/footer method of wrapping views. In your views, define a layout
  using the <tt>layout :default</tt> and create a file named default.html.erb.
  Inside default.html.erb, call <% yield %> to render the view using this
  layout.

app/helpers
  Holds view helpers that should be named like weblogs_helper.rb. These are
  generated for you automatically when using generators for controllers.
  Helpers can be used to wrap functionality for your views into methods.

config
  Configuration files for the Rails environment, the routing map, the database,
  and other dependencies.

db
  Contains the database schema in schema.rb. db/migrate contains all the
  sequence of Migrations for your schema.

doc
  This directory is where your application documentation will be stored when
  generated using <tt>rake doc:app</tt>

lib
  Application specific libraries. Basically, any kind of custom code that
  doesn't belong under controllers, models, or helpers. This directory is in
  the load path.

public
  The directory available for the web server. Contains subdirectories for
  images, stylesheets, and javascripts. Also contains the dispatchers and the
  default HTML files. This should be set as the DOCUMENT_ROOT of your web
  server.

script
  Helper scripts for automation and generation.

test
  Unit and functional tests along with fixtures. When using the rails generate
  command, template test files will be generated for you and placed in this
  directory.

vendor
  External libraries that the application depends on. Also includes the plugins
  subdirectory. If the app has frozen rails, those gems also go here, under
  vendor/rails/. This directory is in the load path.
